## W przygotowaniu

Speakstick, 3 charges.
When touched to a dead body or place of resting, allows you to speak with their ghost provided they have unfinished business.
Recharge: Finish a ghost’s business.
Reading Glass, 1 Charge
This unassuming magnifying glass is inhabited by an entity from the beyond.
When used, the entity will translate any language, written or spoken for 1 hour. The entity communicates telepathically and always speaks in a different voice.
Recharge: Tell the entity a shameful secret.
Brawlers teeth.
A pair of large, pure gold front teeth. When placed into your mouth, unarmed attacks are now d6+d6.
On a failed critical damage save from a bludgeoning attack, you can choose to instead have the teeth knocked out. You can never get them back in.
Staff of Serpents (d8), 4 charges.
Staff carved from jade in the shape of a long serpent.
Attacks with the staff have Critical Damage: The victim loses d6 STR and is Deprived until it fully rests.
Touch the staff to the ground and spend 1 charge to summon a Serpent (see below).
Spend 4 Charges to instead summon a Giant Serpent (same stats, but Detachment Scale).
Recharge: Drip the venom of four different serpents into the mouth of the staff.
Serpent
3 HP, 12 DEX, bite(d6), Critical Damage: Victim loses d6 STR.
Trident of Submission (d8), 3 charges.
A mother-of-pearl trident adorned with narwhal tusks.
When attacking, spending a charge forces the target to make a successful WIL save or surrender.
Recharge: Become the slave of a companion for one week.
Devourer, 1 charge
A small black bead. When the bead is shattered and the name of a creature is spoken, a spirit emerges from the bead and devours that creature.
Recharge: Sacrifice a true friend or ally to the bead, and bind their soul within.
Dial of the Gods
A small, ordinary looking sundial and a round yellow pebble. By holding both at once, the bearer can change the actual position of the sun. It snaps back once one or both items are dropped.
Every time this item is used, roll 1d6. On the first 1, the sun goes away for a day, and comes back dimmer. On the second 1, if goes away for a month and comes back red. On the third 1, it goes away and doesn’t come back.
Fizzletrick’s Hourglass of Spiteful Inversions, 1 charge.
An hourglass that seemingly has an unending flow of sand pouring down.
Inverting the hourglass and placing it on a surface will invert the object it was placed on, rapidly and violently.
Spend more charges to invert larger objects.
Rumored to be hidden in the upside ruins of a city.
Recharge: Allow the hourglass to rest for the length of a season, gain more charges with additional seasons of resting.
Animus needle (d4)
By dealing critical damage with this this small copper needle, you leech the life force from one creature and cause the needle to glow a faint color (depending on the creature).
By sticking the charged needle into another object, you transfer the creatures soul to that new object. If the new creature is alive, the higher WIL prevails.
Pleasant Dress
A light, nicely made sundress of durable yellow fabric. When worn, it is impossible for anyone to hold a negative opinion of the wearer, or for the wearer to hold a negative opinion of anyone else.
The slightest damage or staining of the dress renders it ineffective. Cleaning or repairing the dress will render it effective again.
Infinite Outfit, 3 charges
Jump to swap your clothing with a visible creature that can wear it. Your new clothing inherits the effect.
Recharge: Complete the current Infinite Outfit with whatever the last wearer would have found more fashionable.
Bull Ring
A chunky gold ring with inscriptions of bulls all along it. When placed into someone’s nose, it turns them into a bull at the genetic and physiological level.
When removed, one bullish trait remians. Horns, thick skin, hooves, etc. At the same time, the Warden rolls 1d8. If the number is less than the current number of bull traits, the wearer doesn’t change back.
Lizardskin Cloak, 1 charge
A billowing cloak made of tanned lizard skin, scale pattern still visible.
If charged the cloak is a bright yellow like a morning sun, while discharged it’s a dull blue. While charged, can be made to glow as a dim torch.
Spend a charge to release a bright flash of sunlight which dazzles anyone looking at it.
Spend a charge to release a focused beam of sunlight dealing d10 STR damage which sets its target alight. Recharge: Wear the coat and bask in sunlight for 6 hours.
Whalerʼs Lodestone
A humble magnetic stone carved in the shape of a sperm whale.
When suspended in salt water, points to the nearest, safest place or harbor within 6 miles.
Recharge: Boil the stone in oil.
Ammonite Snorkel
A wooden tube curving at the end into a mouthpiece, with inlaid onyx spirals running along its length.
Breating into the tube causes the holder to vanish from their current location and find themselves snorkeling beneath the surface of a deep but narrow pool at the bottom of a crystal shaft. Through a faint blue light discern a massive ammonite sleeping in the center of the pool.
For the first round, there is a 1 in 10 chance of the ammonite waking and immediately devouring the PC. For each successive round this chance increases to 1 in 8, then 1 in 6, then 1 in 4.
The PC may return to their previous location by blowing sharply through the snorkel three times.
Trackers Tongue
Blue, in a jar of vinegar, stiff until attached.
The user can taste the name of the last person that interacted with a licked person.
Recharge: Rest the tongue in jar with vinegar, detached, for 8 hours.
Lock Powder, one use
Thoroughly coat any lock to make it open automatically.
To create lock powder, cut three green frogs in half and dry them in the sun for three days, then thoroughly grind them into powder between two stones.
Five-Finger Fieldkit
Worn but high-quality rucksack with two external extradimensional pockets that can each hold a single item up to the size of a set of platemail.
Items placed in these extra pockets don’t use inventory slots.
When retrieving an item from one of the pockets, roll a d20; on a 20 the item is lost, leaving only a mummified finger in its place.
Tablet of Interrogation
This baked clay tablet contains and incantation that allows you to summon the spirit of a dead person and ask them three yes-or-no questions.
You must also have a human skull for the spirit to speak through.
Recharge: Sleep three consecutive nights on a fresh grave.
Toymaker’s Key
A wooden key painted in bright primary colors.
Unlocks any treasure chest and disarms any trap. However, all contents within are transformed into colorful wooden replicas and any enchantments are removed.
Bloodstone Pocketwatch, 1 Charge
When you or an ally would do something actively harmful to them (step on a trap, trip in combat), rewind time back to before that happened, but you remember what happened from the rewound time.
Recharge: When at 0 Charges, you are deprived until blood is spilt on the bloodstone (3+ STR damage worth), which also refreshes the charge.
Moonpearl Talisman, 3 Charges
When casting a spell, spend a Charge to avoid gaining Fatigue.
Recharge: Let the moonpearls sit under a full moon.
Feather Wand, 3 Charges
Expend a charge to make a person, creature or object light as a feather or heavier than stone.
Recharge: Drop the wand from a height of at least 100 ft from the ground
Pot of Ever-flowing Porridge
An iron cook pot filled with a thick bland porridge, the pot can never be emptied of porridge.
If anyone tastes the porridge they become cursed. The curse makes it impossible for the subject to eat any food, except for the porridge. If any other food is consumed it will be hurled up instantly.
The curse can be broken by powerful magic or by destroying the pot, such as shattering it or smelting it.
Beggar’s Key
This old brass key fits in any lock, but cannot open any.
Illusory Blade of Treachery (d8)
This elegant silvery weapon looks exactly like a longsword, but has the words “This is not a Longsword” engraved in it with flowery script.
It doesn’t count as a longsword for any effects, rules or laws that would take such in consideration.
A PC can only fully use it after spending one month of training “unlearning” to see it as a longsword, after which, it deals damage to WIL instead of STR.
Wand of Smoke, 4 charges
A wand roughly carved from charred wood that is hard as stone.
Spend 1 Charge to create a 30 ft. diameter thick cloud of smoke centered on you. It lasts for 1 Turn or until the wand leaves the area.
The wielder of the wand is not affected by the smoke and can see normally while inside the cloud.
Recharge: Wrap the wand in parchment paper and burn it into a fire hot enough to melt iron.
Thunder Signet, 1 charge
A golden ring meticulously engraved with lightning motifs.
Spend 1 Charge to summon a thunderstorm in a 1 mile area centered on you. It works even if underground or inside buildings.
Recharge: Get hit by lightning while wearing the ring.
Gaze of Two Minds (d6), 2 charges
A blackened double-bladed dagger with a tiny jewelled handle.
Cut yourself with the blade and spend 1 charge to summon an exact copy of yourself, with all your carried equipment. It disappears at the next dawn or dusk, whichever comes first.
The copy will follow all your commands. It has all your knowledge and capabilities, and acts mostly like you, only being more reckless and cold.
Recharge: Feed a hungry beast with the fresh body of an innocent, and them kill the beast with the blade.
Ring of the Usurper
A sturdy golden ring, its surface engraved with intertwined circles.
Once donned, the ring can only be removed by the death of the wielder.
The wielder no longer ages, and is able to kill any immortal being if they’re able to deliver a mortal wound to such being.
Any immortal beings in the same world can feel when the ring is donned, by whom, and it’s capabilities.
